Also, HTTP servers provide streams.
In this case, instead of a duplex
stream that would have would
sort of bundled the readable and
writable side.
If you have a HTTP server
with a request and response,
then the request object is readable, so
you can pipe from it to somewhere else.
And the response object is writable.
So you can write to that stream, or
you can pipe something into that stream.
The opposite is true
when you make a request,
which is like a client
connection with http.request, or
when you use something like the request
package from NPM, or similar packages.
So in that case, the request is
writable because you're the client and
you're sending data.
So you can send your post body form,
upload that kinda thing.
And the response is gonna be readable
because it's the response from the server.
So it's sort of like the flip side.
Whether you're making, when you're
handling a server connection or
whether you're sending
a request from an HTTP client.
So while we go ahead and
play with those a little bit,
cuz I think that's a good something.
We've already done that
a little bit already.
But as we'll make a server, and
then we'll make a client and
maybe in our server will pipe from
a file to the response object.
It's a fun thing to do.
Of course, there's plenty of modules for
doing things like serving up static files
that you should use instead, but
this is a good exercise nonetheless, okay?
So we're gonna need the HTTP module, and
we're also gonna need the FS module.
So we do http.createserver,
and pass in a function.
The function is gonna take a request,
it's gonna receive a request instance and
a response instance.
And so, the request is readable.
So if we have req.method === 'Post' or
input.
Then, maybe we will pipe
the request to standard out.
And once, the request is finished we
can maybe correct that end, okay?
But otherwise let's read from a file and
just pump it out to the response.
So what files do we have?
I guess we have this file cool.txt.
That looks good.
Maybe hello.txt.
Sure.
So we can do
fs.createReadStream('hello.txt').pipe(r-
es).
And you can also do things
like set headers and
whatever probably how to do that.
So do setHeader('content-type','
text/plain'), okay?
So if I run this program now,
I gotta listen on a port of course, okay?
So now I can make this server run soon.
Next, we need an http-client.
We can use http.requests to do that,
and request and
response are flipped in terms
of writable and readable.
So we get the request
back from http.request.
And then, you have to provide
it some things like maybe,
we'll send a POST method first, and
then, we can send a get method in a sec.
So url, and then,
we get back the response.
So, we can print out the res.statusCode.
And then, we'll pipe the response
out to standard out.
Now, it's a post, so
we need to write some data.
So, we could call that write and
then call that end.
But there's a nice shortcut that
I mentioned in the part about
writable streams where you can
just provide the data like that.
Just in one go, all right?
So, again, we have our server,
whoops, which looks like this.
If we get a post, then we're just
gonna dump the data to standard out.
And then, we'll, once the request
is finished, we'll print, okay?
And otherwise,
we're gonna take data from hello.txt,
and we'll pipe it to the response.
This is what the server does.
So I'll run it.
Now, we can run our client program,
which sends a POST request
to slash on our server.
Sorry, I've actually gotta
put in a real url here.
5000/.
And then,
we're gonna print out the status code, and
we're gonna pipe everything
else to standard out.
We should get the message.
Or maybe it's right,
I think actually with the http.request.
You've got to provide the host and
the port separately for
some reason, and it's,
maybe it works like this.
There we go.
So that's what I expected.
So it says, okay, and
then if we look over here to our server,
we see the message that we sent from
the client program that we just wrote.
So that's a post program.
The other thing that our server does,
is our server can respond
with the file hello.txt.
So we need either to modify
our existing client or
to make a new client program to do that.
So I'm gonna move http-client.js,
call it http-post-client.js.
And then,
we can copy that to be http-get-client.js.
So now, we can make a get request.
And we don't need to end
the request because the request
object is not a writable stream
when we send a get request.
So if I run the server again, whoops.
And now, if I run the get client,
then or maybe,
I do need to end it actually,
because I guess you do need to end it.
That's interesting.
Anyways, here I get the status code
is printed out in our client program.
And then, the response is pipe to standard
out which is from that file hello.txt.
So just shows you what's up with that.
Gonna go ahead and
add these to the get repo.